Welcome to the session Up and Running.
My name is Jim Turner.
I'm an iOS Frameworks Engineer.
Application launch is a critical
point in your app's lifecycle.
Users have come to expect a really
great experience from our apps,
and they start forming opinions about
your app from the moment they launch it.
Now, when you fail to deliver
on that experience,
they tend to notice.
They write bad reviews,
they delete your app,
and that's certainly not
what we want our users to do.
Now,
this talk could talk about a whole bunch
of different things that we could do
to help your apps launch performance.
But today we're going to
focus on a single method,
and that is application did
finish launching with options.
And focusing also on
the topic of blocking,
blocking the process,
blocking a thread or a queue,
or even blocking the user from
even using the application at all.
When it comes to getting
your app up and running,
blocking is really what you
want to avoid at all costs.
So to help with this today,
Brandon's written -- my co-presenter
Brandon has written a really
great application that's going
to augment our conversation.
It's going to focus on a lot of the
topics that we want to talk about,
and I'd like to have him come up on
stage right now and show it to you.
Hi, everyone.
My name is Brandon Newendorp,
and I'm an iOS software engineer.
To help us talk about application
did finish launching with options,
I've put together a really
great demo application.
I've tried to think about the
things that are common tasks a lot
of you do in your applications and
tried to build them into my app.
I called it Quick Pick,
and it's an application
for social photo sharing,
and I'd like to show it to you now.
I have it running on my phone here.
You can see I have this
lovely eggplant icon.
Let's just go ahead and launch it.
Interesting.
All right,
I'm going to find some crash logs.
Give me a second.
So I found a crash log,
a couple of them since I crashed twice,
and I see a couple things
that are interesting.
I have this exception
code of ate bad food,
and the reason is that my
application failed to launch in time.
This is not good.
You know what that is, Brandon?
That's the watchdog.
The watchdog is a timer that's
used by iOS to monitor your
application's launch times,
how quickly it responds to system events,
and how quickly and how timely it can be
terminated or put into the background.
Now, the amount of time that we actually
document -- we don't actually
document the amount of time that we
give you to launch your application,
but we highly recommend that you get
it launched in five seconds or less.
And that's really not a lot of time,
if you think about it,
especially if you're trying to
do a lot of network communication
or complex computation,
especially at startup.
[Transcript missing]
We make some network calls.
We are a social photo
sharing application,
so we're going to talk to
at least one or two servers.
There is a couple databases we
maintain for our geotagging and
our comments done on photos.
We have a couple thousand templates
and default photos that we need to
install in the application documents
directory when the app starts up,
and we want to make
those available to the
There's an external library that
we employ that adds some imaging
post-processing that needs an
initialization routine called on it.
And finally, there's a couple other
odds and ends that we do,
like starting up a Core Location Manager.
We also use an IAD banner,
and we also look at what other
options are passed to us.
[Transcript missing]
Like Brandon is.
So we really only care about
Objective C in this call,
and we're spending 90% of
our time in app launch.
So we'll just drill down here.
Oh, okay.
UI application under load
main nib file name bundle.
That's one of our methods.
That's saying that we're trying
to load your main interface file.
Could you show it to me?
Yeah,
I just have one zip for my application.
I just thought it was
kind of straightforward.
So here's my app's nib.
Okay, so clearly we need to talk
about interface loading.
Most developers create their
interface graphically using
the interface builder in Xcode.
And if you're not,
we highly recommend it because it really
does ease the creation of creating a UI.
You get to see what your
users are going to see,
and if you don't like it,
it allows for a lot of exploration and
experimentation with things that you
can do in the UI that represents the
data you're trying to get displayed.
It also reduces a lot of code.
Those of you who do create
your code programmatically,
it's perfectly fine that you do that.
But a nib can really get rid
of all that code that can be
tedious and sometimes problematic.
But zips play by a couple of rules
that everyone needs to be aware of.
And the first being,
and the most important,
is that no matter what
you put in that zip,
we have to instantiate
the entire object graph,
even if you only need one
or two parts out of it.
And because this is all
dealing with user interface,
this all happens on the main queue.
And when you're doing this when
you're trying to launch your app,
the watchdog kills you.
And there's also some other subtle
side effects that can come into
using a nib or a zib that some
people don't -- it's not obvious.
Is that if you have an object
inside that zib that has an
expensive initialization routine,
you're going to pay the penalty
for that time as well when
you instantiate that nib,
because we have to initialize that
nib or that object at the same time.
So how do we fix this problem?
Well,
there's two solutions that we can do.
And the first is to throw
more zips at the problem.
When you create your user
interface using multiple zips,
you need to focus on lazy loading.
Put into your nibs only that what
you'll need when you load the nib.
So if you only need a table view
controller or a tab view controller,
or maybe you only need a table view cell,
don't put a bunch of other
stuff in there because,
again, you're going to have to
load all of that code.
So in Brandon's case,
we could maybe take that
really complicated zip,
break it into six or seven files,
and we load a much smaller
part of it at app launch.
The second way is to use storyboards.
And storyboards are actually the
preferred way of creating your
user interface because it abstracts
and handles a lot of the issues
we just pointed out with ZIBS.
They're perfectly fine and
they're perfectly happy to
allow you to create your entire
user interface in a single file.
And they get to do that because both the
tools and the framework have really deep,
intimate knowledge of how a storyboard
is actually built and constructed and
how it wants to be unpacked at runtime.
If you use Storyboards,
it really will simplify your
user interface creation,
and it allows you to not worry
about the implementation details of
how you're going to get your UI on
screen when your application runs.
It sounds like Storyboards would be
a fantastic tool for my application,
because I have a pretty
complicated user interface.
There's a lot going on there.
But I'd really like to get my demo
application working for the talk today,
so I think I'll migrate to
Storyboards in the next week or two.
What I'd like to do right now
is take a couple key parts of
my application's interface and
migrate them over to separate zips,
just to get things up and running
nice and quickly right now.
That's a good idea, Brandon.
So once again, this is my application's
main zip right now.
There's a lot going on here,
but there's really only two pieces
that I have to have in order
to get my application launched.
And that's really the key part,
is to think about what do I need
just to launch my application.
I need to have this table view,
and I need to have the
corresponding table view cell.
So I'm going to migrate each
of these into their own zips.
Going to make a couple of
new zips for my project.
Start off with empty ones.
And first I'll create a
QP photo table view cell.
Create the one that
I incidentally had around already.
And we'll go ahead and make a second
one here for the QP Photo Table View.
One of the convenient things
that we have in Interface Builder
is the ability to cut and paste
objects from one zip into another,
which is going to help me get this
process done nice and quickly.
All I need to do is I'm going to cut
my table view out of one and move
it into the QP photo table view.
I'll go back to my view controller
and I'll grab that cell and simply
paste that into the new ZIB.
Now I've moved them into ZIBs,
but I need to do a little bit
more work before I can actually
have my application use them.
My app needs to know to
actually use these new ZIBs.
It's very straightforward for
me to get my application to use
a default ZIB when it launches.
If I pick my Xcode project,
I can select my target and go to Summary,
and change my application's main
interface to the QP Photo Table View.
This is how Xcode defines what ZIB to
load when my application launches.
And now it will just load that nice,
lightweight table view.
I also need to update my
table view to use the cells.
And there's a couple interesting things
that we can do to make that happen.
I'm going to take advantage
of UINib to make this happen.
So first,
I need to make a UINib property.
Pretty straightforward.
In my viewDidLoad, I need to do a little
bit of setup for this.
The first thing I need to do is
assign that property to my nib.
UINib has a method, nibWithNibName.
I'm going to tell it to access my
QP Photo Table View cell and to look for
that in my application's main bundle.
The second thing here,
the second line is one of the really
interesting bits that we offer.
In iOS 5,
we added the ability for your table
views to have a template cell that you
can assign a cell reuse identifier.
And this actually simplifies
part of your table view code.
In my case, I'm going to tell my table
view to register this nib.
The key thing with registering
the nib is I can only have
a single item in that nib,
my table view cell.
Now,
I mentioned that this simplifies things.
If I take a look at my
cell for RowIt index path,
if you've ever used a table view,
I'm sure you're familiar
with this method.
And this bit of code
probably looks familiar.
You dequeue a reusable
cell with identifier.
If it's nil, you create a new one.
The advantage of assigning that nib to my
table view is I can delete all of that,
and the dequeue reusable
cell with identifier will
automatically reuse a cell for me or
instantiate a new one from my nib.
It's incredibly straightforward,
and this makes my application's
interface loading occur much faster.
All right, so what are the changes
that Brandon just made?
What do they look like to the watchdog?
We've reduced the amount of
time that we're spending in
interface loading by quite a bit.
But we're still incredibly long on time.
There's no way our app's
going to launch still.
So let's go right into
handling network communication.
When your application is talking to
a server or service over the network,
it's really easily defined as
you're writing in undefined
behavior into your app.
We can code as defensively as we
possibly can around every conceivable
idea or problem or situation that our
network communication can get into,
but there's still going to be
three things we didn't think about.
And when you're programming
in the face of this,
and when you're trying to get your
app launched in front of the user,
you really want to focus on what's
going to block and what's going to
remain usable while this is happening.
And this actually applies to any kind
of synchronous method or behavior
that you find in your application.
So let's take a look at some basic
networking code that one app could
actually do when it launches.
And here it's nothing exciting.
We have an NSXML parser that's
doing init with contents of URL.
And init with contents of
URL is a blocking call.
If this is happening on the main queue,
we're going to block until
it returns an answer.
Any method that has the name with
contents of URL in it is a really
good indication that it's implemented
synchronously under the hood and
it needs to be used with caution.
Same goes for NSData,
data with contents of URL.
And also the same for NSURL connection,
send synchronous request,
returning response error.
It's right in the name.
It's synchronous.
Another way of thinking about this is,
imagine that you on app launch have
some files that you'd like to download,
and you start downloading
your current info data,
but all these other files are
waiting for you to download.
These are going to take a long time,
especially in a bad network conditions,
and your app's never
going to get launched,
especially if this is
happening on the main queue.
So the first approach to trying
to solve this problem would be to,
well, if I'm blocking the main queue,
I'll just unblock it.
Dispatch async puts it
in a background queue,
and the problem goes away, right?
Well, not exactly.
While you have maybe solved the problem
of the main queue being blocked,
the issue still remains.
We'll put this in the background queue,
and now the user is able to use your app,
but what actually happens in this case?
Your current info gets downloaded,
but this JSON file is coming from a
server that is just getting buried.
It's responding incredibly slow,
but it's going to take it
hours to get that data down.
Your other parts of your application are
not going to be functioning correctly
if they depend on the image data or
maybe a Twitter feed being pulled,
because it's never going
to get that information.
Okay, so if each individual part
needs to be asynchronous,
we'll just wrap each one
of them in Dispatch Async,
right?
And you see where this is going.
Not a good idea either.
And there's a couple
different reasons here.
First,
you lose a lot of ability to control
the resources that your device
is consuming when you do this.
And second, there's no real clear way to
build dependencies between
one block of work and another.
And third,
when you come back in six months
and you need to add code to this,
where do you put it?
I mean, it gets kind of confusing.
There is a much better tool.
It's NSOperation.
NSOperation is both asynchronous
and can be made concurrent,
which,
when you're dealing with network traffic,
is really what you're looking for.
Things happening in a background
queue and using the device's
capabilities to its fullest.
You can also tune resource usage with
NSOperation through NSOperation Queue.
And NSOperation Queue is an
object that just manages a
light collection of operations.
You can form dependencies
between each NS operation.
It's trivial to create one S operation
that can't run until another operation
finishes doing what it's doing.
And finally,
they had the idea of cancellation.
If you create an NS operation and
add it into a queue and find that
before it runs or before it completes,
you don't need that information anymore,
you can just go ahead and cancel it,
and you don't pay the penalty for
computing that work or pulling that
information down from the network.
Now, Brandon, I have to ask this.
How is our networking stack looking,
QuickPix?
Does it have any problems like this?
We probably have quite a few problems.
I had no idea that data with contents
of URL would block my main queue,
and I'm using it all over the place.
Excellent.
That's not good.
This is really important,
especially in our application,
because we're so network bound.
We probably should take
some time and fix it up now.
That's probably a great idea.
There's a number of things that
QuickPix does when I launch
it that are network dependent.
My application launches,
and it needs to download two JSON files
for a couple of different purposes.
The application also launches
and downloads eight different
photos from my servers.
They change on a very regular basis,
which is why I download them every
time my application launches.
The problem right now is that my
application is using data with contents
of URL to access all of those files.
And if any of my servers is slow,
that JSON file, for example,
will never download,
and my app will fail the launch.
I'm going to take advantage of
NSOperation and NSOperationQueue
to make this better,
and I'd like to show you how that works.
NSOperation and NSOperationQueue are
fantastic tools for deferring some
of the stuff and getting these tasks
off of your application's main queue.
We provide NSOperation as
something that you can subclass
and create your own operations.
I'm going to be implementing
the start method in NSOperation,
which is what you should implement if
you want to make concurrent operations.
I've put together a couple of NSOperation
subclasses that we'll be using,
one for JSON and one for photos.
I'm going to bring my
JSON operations into my project here.
And I'm going to go ahead and show
you a couple of the key things
in how this works for networking.
This is my QP JSON operation,
and the interesting stuff here
is inside my start method.
I'm taking advantage of NSURL request
and NSURL connection to download
these files asynchronously and
to make sure that I don't block
anything and to take full advantage
of my device's networking resources.
I create an NSURL request
with the URL that's passed in,
and then I create an NSURL connection.
The key part of this is that I don't want
to start that connection immediately.
Now, you might be thinking, "Brandon,
why would you not start that right away?
We want it to be fast." The next
line is the real answer to that.
We need to schedule our connection
in my application's main run loop,
where we call data back with it.
That way, we're not blocking anything
while my URL request is out
there and sending data back.
Once it's scheduled,
I can start the connection.
So that's what my operations look like.
How can I use them?
This is my application's "application did
finish launching with options" method.
I have a couple of things at the top
here just to get things up and running.
We'll not worry about those.
But here's my JSON operations,
or rather my data with
contents of URL right now.
They're going to block if the
network is slow or if a server
is not responding very well.
So what do I need to do to
take advantage of NSOperation?
The first thing I need to
have is an NSOperation queue.
I'm going to create that as a property.
We'll call it Operation Queue,
because I like creative names like that.
I'll create,
or rather instantiate my operation queue,
and since I'm using this for
a lot of processing tasks,
I'll call it my processing queue.
So I need to use my JSON operation.
Of course, I need to import a header
before I can do anything else.
And then I'm going to add my
JSON operations and just replace
my data with contents of URL with
my two QP JSON operations.
Each of those get initialized with a URL,
and then I simply add them
to my operation queue.
I'm going to do something incredibly
similar for the QP photo operation.
I'll add my operations to my project
and go through those same steps.
Just import the header for it.
And then down here is where
I download those photos.
I'm creating an array of the
URLs that I'd like to download,
and then I'm just enumerating
through that array,
and right now calling data with
contents of URL for each one.
For the photo operation,
I'm just going to replace that
for loop and create a set of
QP photo operations and add each
of those to my operation queue.
And with that,
I've taken my networking and
used NSOperation to make it both
asynchronous and concurrent,
so I can take full advantage of my
device's networking resources to
download multiple files at the same
time and not blocking any of my
application's queues while it's doing it.
This should make my networking
for my application much better.
So to recap a little bit,
what we had before was
a very synchronous,
very serial process, one file at a time,
happening on the main queue
and irritating our user.
And now what we have is a
very asynchronous process
happening concurrently,
downloading multiple files and bringing
your application and its functionality
up for the user much quicker.
What does this look like to the watchdog?
We move all that network time to
the background processing queue.
But we still have a couple
other things that we're doing.
We might launch okay,
but let's -- we should probably
explore what's actually going on here.
These three blocks of work
are database management,
our payload installation,
all those images that we need to install,
and the external library that
does some image processing.
These things aren't really specific to --
or not really general to any application.
It's specific to what we're doing.
You may do some database
management as well.
But in our case, it's what we do to make
our app what it does.
And so it's just basic work
that we need to get done.
But it doesn't necessarily need
to be work that blocks the user
from being able to use the app.
If we don't have all of our
templates installed before the
app is completely launched,
then, you know, maybe we don't have those
available to the user.
Same with, like, the external library.
Since it's for image processing,
maybe that functionality isn't
online until it becomes available.
These tasks also represent
things that are paralyzable.
The output from the external
library doesn't depend on
the payload installation,
which doesn't depend on if the databases
get created correctly or in time.
So these are things that can happen
concurrently while your app is launching.
And finally, they may actually be
dependent on the network,
and we mean that in two different ways.
And the first being,
the external library,
since it's a static library that
we don't have the source for,
we're not really quite sure what
it does in its initialization.
So if it calls home to, like,
check for an update,
we don't want to pay that -- we don't pay
the price for that during our app launch.
And the second meaning is
that our database may need to
pull down a file to properly
initialize from one of our servers.
So it may need to wait until
that data is available before
it can actually start itself up.
So if we take a look at how
we might be able to process
some of this general data,
here we have two chunks of code.
And in the first,
we have a DBManager object that looks
like it's going to start up a database.
And it just needs to update
itself when it gets running.
It has no dependencies on any
other part of the application.
And the application really doesn't depend
on it being ready at any point in time.
So it's in this situation that
this might actually be a really
good use of DispatchAsync.
If there is no dependencies,
you don't really need
to put it in a queue.
You just want it to get
running at some point in time.
This second chunk of work, though,
is going to be slightly more problematic,
and for that reason right there.
In it with data,
and we got that data from our server.
It's problematic because now all of
our data is coming down asynchronously
and concurrently in a background queue.
So how do we make sure that the
XML parser gets initialized correctly,
and how do we get it started the
minute that data is available to us?
Let's take a look.
So let's give ourselves
an operation queue,
give it a name,
and we're going to have some
network operations on it already.
So we need to create an operation
that encompasses the work that
parsing that XML file is going to do.
And so we create that operation,
but before we put it into
the processing queue,
we need to create the dependency between
it and the network operation that's
going to be or is downloading that data.
And we do that through
the add dependency method.
And once we've added that dependency,
we add our operation
to our operation queue.
RQ is both synchronous and concurrent,
so all these operations could
happen in any order at any time.
And so we can keep adding in
objects and other operations,
and they can get processed
as the queue gets to them.
But what happens when
this one becomes slow?
Doesn't matter.
We can still add other operations.
They get processed in time.
And when that operation -- that
operation that's slow finally completes,
the operation queue will tell our parsing
XML operation to go ahead and run itself,
and then it finishes.
There's a lot of tasks that the demo
application does that sound a lot like
the general processing you're describing.
There's a lot of things that
we're doing that I think I need to
make asynchronous to try to keep
getting the application launched.
When I launch the demo application,
we need to create a couple of databases.
One of those databases
is for local photos,
and it doesn't have any dependencies.
It just needs to be created,
and when we get around to finishing it,
that's great.
The second database, however,
does rely on networking,
kind of like what Jim was talking about.
If you remember when I was
creating my networking operations,
there's two JSON files I download.
One of those JSON files is used
to initialize that database,
and I have to have it to get
that database up and running.
So I'll need to do some
dependency work for that.
[Transcript missing]
The next is that shared photos database.
And this little bit right here
makes it a little bit more
complicated because it relies on
data coming down from the network.
This is a great place to use NSOperation
and take advantage of dependencies.
Now, for something like my networking
traffic that I was using earlier,
it's great to create your own
subclasses of NSOperation to
do the tasks that you need.
But sometimes you need something
that's straightforward and you
don't want to have a list of,
you know, 50 operations that you created.
To help you with that,
we provide NSBlockOperation.
NSBlockOperation is very
similar to DispatchAsync,
but it gives you the capability
to do the same things you do
with any other NSOperation.
And I'm going to use
NSBlockOperation here.
So my Shared Photos database code
needs to be loaded with the dependency.
I create a block operation,
and I call block operation with block.
And just like with the
dispatch async above,
I put my Shared Photos
database code in there.
However, the second line of code
is what makes this work.
I can add the dependency on
that earlier JSON operation.
With the dependency in place,
I just add it to my operation queue,
and it's taken care of.
The next steps in my application
launch process is to copy some
assets from my applications bundle
into the documents directory.
The first of those is this initial plist.
It's very small, it's very lightweight,
which is fortunate because I have
to have it in this launch process.
It's always good to think about
what you need there and what you
don't need in your launch process.
If you have to have it there,
by all means, have it there.
And in this case,
I'm going to leave my plist in place.
The next step, however,
is copying my default images
and templates and other assets
into my documents directory,
and this takes a long time.
This is another place
to use NSBlockOperation.
Once again, I create an NSBlock operation
and call BlockOperationWithBlock.
I pass in, again,
the same code I was using
to copy those photos.
In this case, however,
I'm taking advantage of another
feature that we have on NSOperation,
which is the ability to
set a completion block.
The completion block is something
that we guarantee you we will call
after the operation is finished.
And in this case,
I want to update my application's main
user interface once those photos have
been copied into the documents directory.
As you may or may not know,
your application's user interface can
only be updated on the main queue.
I need to guarantee that
this completion block,
or the task in this block,
will occur on the main queue.
However, if you take a look at the
documentation for completion blocks,
we say it's highly unlikely that
that completion block will be
called back on the main queue.
So I need to guarantee
that it will happen myself.
And to do that,
I'm using performSelectorOnMainThread.
I'm asking my view controller
to load the photos on the main
thread in my completion block.
With the completion block in place,
I once again add the operation
to my operation queue.
The last thing I need to do
in speeding up or improving my
application's launch performance is
to initialize my external library,
which I call ImageStamper.
This one has no other dependencies,
so this is yet another place
to use an NSBlock operation.
Like before,
I create the block and simply
add it to my operation queue.
And now I've taken a lot of those general
processing tasks that my application
had and I've made them asynchronous.
I'm not blocking my
application's main queue,
and hopefully this will help me get
QuickPix up and running much faster.
What do those changes
look like to the watchdog?
Database work is now on
the background queue.
Payload, image stamping,
external library is now
on the processing queue.
We still have that little
sliver of payload and some other
things that we're going to do,
but the watchdog isn't
going to bother us anymore.
But at this point in time,
you're probably thinking to yourself,
you guys have now put pretty
much everything that builds
up the infrastructure of my
app in a background queue.
What exactly do I show that
user wellness is all happening?
At least three of you thought that.
This is a really good question.
But it's something you can do if you
put a little forethought and planning
into creating your application or
when you're refactoring your app.
And how we're going to
approach this in Quick Pick is,
That initial data file
that Brandon loads,
that P list,
it actually has a fake database in it.
It shows, you know, 10, 15,
20 entries of what the user would
normally see when the app is actually
doing what it's supposed to be doing.
It has no images downloaded,
so we have a very tiny default
image with a question mark in it.
But when the user launches this
app and they're in a cornfield
somewhere and they have no networking,
they get to still use the app
like we would intend them to do.
They can see the functionality and
they get to actually experience
what we want them to experience
instead of showing them a spinner.
Then as assets get downloaded,
here maybe one of our databases
has finally come online and
we've downloaded a couple images,
we're going to just seamlessly load those
into the UI as they become available.
If we're lucky,
the user doesn't even realize
this is actually happening.
And then finally,
when the entire application
is up and running,
it's come online, it's fully realized,
we have all of our assets in place.
The application is running as we
had seen it in our development
environment and our users are
ecstatic and they give us more money.
But what remains?
What are the other things that we do
inside Application Did Finish Launching
with Options that need to stay there?
Core Location.
We use Core Location for
geotagging our photos.
But Core Location needs to be
instantiated -- an instance,
excuse me,
of Core -- see a location manager --
needs to be instantiated before your
application says that it's finished,
before we return from application
did finish launching with options.
And this is important
because in some instances,
we will launch your app in
response to a location event.
And when your app says
that you're up and going,
we will immediately call you
back to give you updated location
coordinates and information.
And if you don't have a CO location
manager configured properly,
you're going to miss that information.
IAD, we have a single
IAD banner view in our app,
and we only create one because it doesn't
make any sense to make more than one.
You're not allowed to
show more than one anyway.
And if you create one and you create
it in your application startup,
you can share it amongst all
the view controllers that you're
going to display in your app.
And by doing it this way,
the IAD framework can actually
optimize and more efficiently
deliver ads to your application.
We also look at what other
options are passed into us.
I mean, the method name is application
did finish launching with options,
so there are other things
that come along for the ride.
If you have a local or
remote notification,
your app is launched in
response to one of those,
the options dictionary
will tell you that.
If you, perchance, have a custom scheme,
if you have a URL that your app
will be launched in response to,
another application on the
device could launch that URL,
and you're told not only the
URL that the app requested,
but the app that actually requested it.
So in this way,
maybe you update your UI to better
match the app that called you.
Maybe you are a newsstand application.
We'll launch your application in response
to the user downloading new content
that you need to make available to them.
And then as the teaser showed you,
there's something new in iOS
6 called State Restoration.
And this is a really cool tool.
It allows you to save and restore where
you're at in your application so that
when the user comes back into your app,
they can be immediately returned
to where they left it at,
whether they're 15 view controllers down
in a nav controller or they've scrolled
16 pages in a web view that you host.
Really interesting tech.
It's great stuff,
and I think you guys are
all going to love it.
But to implement it correctly,
we needed to create a
new delegate method.
And we're talking about it here
because this entire conversation
deals with application did
finish launching with options.
But we need,
State Restoration needed your
application to be up and running
before it can actually do what it does.
So we needed to tell you that the
application was going to be launched,
so we've made it application will
finish launching with options.
Small, subtle change,
but what we recommend that
you're actually doing in did
finish launching with options,
you simply move it into will
finish launching with options.
There was a talk on this yesterday,
but Gordy's doing another talk on
it tomorrow in Russian Hill at 3:15.
Highly recommend you check it out.
It's really great stuff.
And if you can get it
in your application,
your users will love it.
Woohoo!
It works!
Okay.
Hi.
So, clearly Brandon's got
this thing working better,
so let's give him another chance.
Let's start this whole demo over again
and give Brandon a chance to show
you what this application can do.
So, hi, everyone.
My name is Brandon Newendorp,
and I'm an iOS software engineer,
a much improved iOS software engineer,
after the last 45 minutes.
I've taken a lot of -- a bit
of time here in our talk,
anyway, to make my application's
launch process better.
I've taken some of my networking code,
and I've made that both
asynchronous and concurrent,
so I don't block my main queue
and take full advantage of my
device's networking resources.
I've made sure that my databases
are not blocking while they load.
I've made sure that I'm copying my assets
appropriately out of my application
bundle into the documents directory.
And while I'm doing that,
I'm making sure I update my
application's interface with
interesting data as it loads.
So I'd like to show you what
QuickPix is supposed to be like.
About 45 minutes ago,
I tried to show you QuickPix.
And this is the application launch
experience I was giving my customers.
It was less than a minute long.
It was a little bit
more than a minute long.
Less than ideal, shall we say.
Because we were hitting the watchdog.
With the changes I've made,
I've put together a new
version of QuickPix.
You can see it launches almost
immediately and then starts
populating my interface.
I'm making sure that my application
takes the time to only load photos
when they're requested by the user,
when they scroll, as you'll see.
I've also made sure that my image
post-processing library can initialize
itself so that when I want to add
a little bit of extra character to
my applications or to my photos,
it's ready to go.
And this is the experience I like to
give my customers with Quick Pick,
and I hope you enjoyed seeing it as well.
Excellent, Brandon.
What was that 45 minutes ago?
All right.
So now that Brandon's got his application
running the way that he wants it,
how is he going to prevent regressing?
How is he going to prevent going back
to what we had when we started this?
Well, he's going to be vigilant.
And that's a really simple way of saying
is that he's going to look really hard
at the work he's trying to put into any
method that involves application launch,
app coming back from the foreground,
even going into the background.
Anything that is launch
or launch sensitive,
he needs to really make sure that
what he's putting in there is
important and needs to be done then.
But vigilance only gets him so far.
He really needs to automate
some performance testing.
We've had the UI automation
framework around for several
versions of the OS now.
And if you're not familiar with it,
it's a framework that allows
you to simulate user input
into your application,
both on the device and in the simulator.
And you can pair UI automation
with the UI application.
You can pair UI automation with the
same time profiler that we used.
And maybe every day that you
commit code to your repository,
at night you can build,
run some automation against it,
and in the morning see how bad you
actually regressed or what kind
of progress you actually made.
And to help with this,
iOS 6 also has another new feature,
and that is the Network Link Conditioner.
Yeah.
So most of you are clearly familiar
with this from the desktop side.
But if you're not,
the network link conditioner
can help you simulate both a
slow and a high latency network.
And now a slow network we've all
been -- we've all experienced.
But a high latency network is one that,
you know,
the data may flow at a normal rate,
but it's going to take you a
long time to get it started.
In both cases,
your application really needs to
know how to handle those situations.
And using the network link conditioner,
you can test for this and make sure
that your app is doing the best it can
when the network's not cooperating.
So to wrap up today's session,
if there was a single thing that we
wanted you to take away from this,
a single question actually,
is to ask yourself any time
that you're adding code,
is do I need this here?
If you are in your app's launch
routine or if you're trying to
add code that's going to get
initialized in through a nib,
ask yourself, the code I'm adding here,
is the result of the
data that comes from it,
is it really important
to have it right now?
If it's not,
find somewhere else to put it.
Maybe you can defer
it until a later time.
Maybe you can make it asynchronous.
Whatever it takes to make sure
that that information gets
available when it's required,
but won't block the user from doing
what they want to do with your app.
The network doesn't like you or
your app or your users or anybody.
And it's really something that you need
to be aware of because we're becoming
more and more connected to servers
and services in our applications.
Becoming defensive with the network and
trying to plan for the best that you
can in worse situations is the best you
can do and really got to test for it.
Dispatch Async and Grand Central Dispatch
are wonderful tools,
but they can get you
in trouble sometimes.
They can make really easy to
understand code kind of spaghettiish
and can cause problems where a better
tool may exist through NSOperation.
When you're trying to solve
a problem through Asynchrony,
make sure you're trying to understand
what you're trying to solve first.
And finally, when your application is
launching and it finds itself
in a really horrible situation,
none of the content is available,
or everything that you thought was
going to be there really isn't,
what can you provide to the
user to show them that this
is what my application can do,
what it's going to do,
and this is just an anomaly, a fluke?
If you can give that to your users,
they'll stay around until
the app actually gets going,
and then they'll see what you can
actually do with your application.
Like we mentioned before,
the related session was Saving and
Restoring Application State in iOS
tomorrow in Russian Hill at 3:15.
Highly recommend you check that out.
For more information,
Jake Behrens is our UI frameworks
evangelist from the future.
He likes email,
especially ones with cats.
And there is lots of
documentation and all this stuff,
application delegate protocol,
storyboards,
and its operation and operation queue,
and especially on state restoration.
And of course,
you're already on the forums,
but if you're not, go there.
Lots of great conversations.
And that's the slide
that says we're done.
Thank you, guys.